# Finite field first order logic

This project aims at studiying which formulas stay true according to different models. This only support finite set 
since it is undecidable otherwise. We focus on `bool` and `Galois Fields`.

### Requierements

Requiered librairies are listed in `requierments.txt` and can be installed by using `pip install -r requierements.txt`.
The grammar parser is based on antlr4. I provide the generated code but you may want to recompile the grammar. In that 
case you should install `antlr4`. 

### Usage

First you need to write a file containing the formulas you want to check. Some examples are available in
`tests/`.

An example, testing if there exists an inverse for each element in Z/8Z 
(The answer is no since 8 is not prime)
````
import galois_field, Z/8Z;
forall x : E, (x = 0 \/ (there exists y : E, (x * y = 1)));
````

For more information you can use `python main.py -h` to get the help page.

Then you can evaluate the formula using:

```` 
python main.py path/to/file.logic
````

### Extensions

The software can be easily extended by writing down new models in the `models/` directory. The module should contain a 
class `model` with an attribute `_value_set` which should support mapping from the name of the set to an iterator on 
this set.

You can find examples in the `models/` directory and build your own model inspired by the `galois_field` one. Every 
model should include the `base_model` which is the `bool` model.

### Documentation

The grammar used to define formulas is available in the file `logic.g4`. It uses `antlr` to generate parsers.

### Project structure
```
├── logicEvaluator.py # Parser / Interpreter for the logic language
├── logic.g4 # Grammar
├── main.py # Main file
├── models # Models 
│   ├── abstractInterval.py # It is currently not used
│   ├── abstract.py # It is currently not used
│   ├── base_model.py # Bool model
│   └── galois_field.py # Galois field model
├── parsers # Parsers generated by antlr
│   ├── logic.interp
│   ├── logicLexer.interp
│   ├── logicLexer.py
│   ├── logicLexer.tokens
│   ├── logicParser.py
│   ├── logic.tokens
│   └── logicVisitor.py
├── Readme.md # The readme you are reading
├── requierements.txt # Dependancies for this project
├── structure.txt # This structure
└── tests # Tests and examples
```

### TODO's
Parsing: actually parentheses are needed in order to parse correctly the formulas. I hope i can be able to remove them 
in the futur.

Currently the default set used is `E`, I will update the parser in order to specify the name of each set.

Support other fields.

